docs: create Renovate and changelogs page (#25982)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/key-concepts/changelogs.md

## Platforms that Renovate can fetch changelogs from

See the list of platforms in the [`fetchChangelogs` config option docs](../configuration-options.md#fetchchangelogs).

### Running Renovate on a non-GitHub platform

Most Open Source packages are hosted on github.com, which means most changelogs are hosted there too.
Fetching changelogs from github.com requires a GitHub token because GitHub blocks unauthenticated GraphQL API use.

This means that if you run Renovate on self-hosted GitHub Enterprise Server, or any non-GitHub platform which Renovate supports, then you need to configure a github.com Personal Access Token in Renovate in order to fetch changelogs.

Read [Running Renovate, GitHub.com token for changelogs](../getting-started/running.md#githubcom-token-for-changelogs) to learn more.

## Troubleshooting missing changelogs

Follow these steps to find out why Renovate does not find a changelog:

1. The datasource for this package does not support sourceUrls.
   - If the registry fundamentally does not provide this data, then the only possibility is for it to be manually populated through PRs to Renovate's source code

>    - If the registry provides source URLs but Renovate does not support it yet, then raise a feature request with examples, or better yet a Pull Request to implement it yourself

Author: What does `Renovate does not support it yet,` mean here? Same question with `a Pull Request to implement it yourself`.

>    - If the registry provides source URLs but Renovate does not support it yet, then raise a feature request with examples, or better yet a Pull Request to implement it yourself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If the registry provides source URLs in its response but Renovate does not understand the required fields, then raise a feature request with examples, or better yet a Pull Request to implement support for the source URL parsing/mapping yourself
```

   - Sometimes self-hosted versions of registries don't include the full metadata compared to what the public registries do

> 1. The package does not provide this information to the registry.

Author: What does `this information` mean here?

> 1. The package does not provide this information to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The package was published without source URL information being included.
```

   - For example, occasionally `npm` packages don't have `repository` fields included
   - For example, Docker images regularly do not have the required `LABEL` entry
1. Renovate cannot access the source repository
   - This is typically a concern for private repositories only
   - Check if the token Renovate uses has access rights to the repository you need it to access
1. Renovate cannot detect the file names or release name convention within the repository

>    - In this case an enhancement to Renovate might be needed to better detect the releases/formats, assuming it's got a reasonable convention to follow

Author: Same question about `assuming it's got a reasonable convention to follow`. I guess you really mean something like this?

> assuming the upstream package/ecosystem has a reasonable convention that Renovate can follow

>    - In this case an enhancement to Renovate might be needed to better detect the releases/formats, assuming it's got a reasonable convention to follow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In this case an enhancement to Renovate might be needed to better detect the releases/formats, assuming the package/repository has a reasonable convention to follow
```

We helped Docusaurus a while back to get the changelogs visible, but they had a complicated monorepo setup, see: [`facebook/docusaurus` issue: package.json repository/directory metadata incomplete](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/issues/3612).

As maintainer, make sure the `package.json` has a filled in `repository` field, read the [npm Docs, configuring npm `repository` field](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/package-json#repository) to learn more.
If your repository uses the monorepo pattern make sure _each_ `package.json` file has a `repository` field.

### yarn package maintainers

I suspect Yarn needs a similar field like `repository` in the `package.json` as for the npm package manager.
Maybe Yarn even uses the same field...

### maven package maintainers

Read [`maven` datasource, making your changelogs fetchable](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/datasource/maven/#making-your-changelogs-fetchable).

### Docker image maintainers

Read the [Docker datasource](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/datasource/docker/) docs.

> ### Rust packages
> 
> Explain how to get Rust changelogs here.
> 
> ### Nuget packages
> 
> Explain how to get Nuget changelogs here.
> 
> ### Go packages
> 
> Explain how to get Go changelogs here.
> 
> ### Ruby packages
> 
> Explain how to get Ruby (gem) changelogs here.

Author: ```suggestion
### Rust package maintainers

Explain how to get Rust changelogs here.

### Nuget package maintainers

Explain how to get Nuget changelogs here.

### Go package maintainers

Explain how to get Go changelogs here.

### Ruby package maintainers

Explain how to get Ruby (gem) changelogs here.
```

## What about that `changelog.json` file?

> Renovate can apparently read `changelog.json` files, I don't know how that works.

Author: Context:

- https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions/25828
